The ECO4 scheme
    The Energy Company Obligation (ECO) is a government energy efficiency
    scheme in Great Britain designed to tackle fuel poverty and help
    reduce carbon emissions. Energy Suppliers are obligated to take part
    in the scheme to improve the ability of low-income, fuel-poor and
    vulnerable households to heat their homes.

    The scheme has seen 4 iterations, ECO, ECO1, ECO2 and ECO3, a brief
    overview can be found at the bottom of this page. The ECO3 scheme
    closed on 31 March 2022 and the ECO4 Order came into force in July
    2022. ECO4 applies to measures installed from 1 April 2022 and will
    cover a four-year period until 31 March 2026.

    Eligible customers will be able to access a range of energy improvements
    that will help them improve their home energy efficiency. ECO 4 also
    requires a more complete upgrade of homes, shifting to a multi-measure
    whole-house retrofit approach. For example, a customer cannot just expect
    to receive loft insulation or a new boiler under ECO 4 all areas of
    improvement must be delivered.

    ECO 4 is not a general boiler replacement only / emergency replacement
    boiler scheme. The most important measure which must be considered first
    will be fabric insulation (loft insulation / cavity wall / underfloor heating).
    Customers will need to take a package of energy efficiency improvements
    rather than just one. Eligible customers will have a survey carried out on
    their homes to make sure their property is suitable for these improvements.

How does ECO work?
    The ECO scheme works by placing a Home Heating Cost Reduction Obligation
    (HHCRO) on medium and large energy suppliers. Under HHCRO, obligated
    suppliers must promote measures that improve the ability of low-income,
    fuel-poor and vulnerable households to heat their homes. This includes
    actions that result in reduced energy usage, such as installing insulation
    or upgrading a heating system. The overall target for these measures is
    divided between suppliers based on their relative share of the domestic
    gas and electricity market.

Who is the scheme for?
    The ECO scheme supports energy efficiency measures in the home of those
    considered to be in fuel poverty, if you’re a homeowner or tenant you can
    find out more in the homeowners and tenants section. Eligible customers
    will be able to access a range of energy improvements that will help them
    improve their home energy efficiency. ECO 4 also requires a more complete
    upgrade of homes, shifting to a multi-measure whole-house retrofit approach.
    For example, a customer cannot just expect to receive loft insulation or a
    new boiler under ECO 4 all areas of improvement must be delivered

There is a very strict set of eligibility criteria for the scheme and customers
need to be in receipt of certain benefits to be eligible.

    Customers that are in receipt of the following benefits qualify
    (as long as their home is applicable for improvements)

    I. Income-based Job Seekers Allowance
    II. Income-related Employment and Support Allowance
    III. Income Support
    IV. Pension Credit either Savings Credit or Guarantee Credit
    V. Working Tax Credit
    VI. Child Tax Credit
    VII. Universal Credit
    VIII. Housing Benefit
    IX. Child benefit where the occupants meet the below income thresholds*
    X.You can find more information on criteria on Ofgem's ECO page here.

    Upon receipt of your application our installers will carry out an initial
    remote assessment of your property to determine eligibility.
    The installer will contact you directly to confirm the next steps.

    No work will be carried out until a full assessment and quote has been
    prepared. Please note that the ECO retrofit may require an upfront customer
    contribution but this will not be known until after the initial survey.

    If the property is privately rented and the tenants are on benefits, the
    ECO 4 application cannot proceed without written permission from the
    landlord. This cannot be received by email, a formal declaration will
    need to be completed by the Landlord which will be supplied to the tenant
    by the relevant installer.

    You may be eligible if you own or privately rent your home, or live in
    social housing. When you apply, we'll ask for some details about your
    property and the benefits you're getting. If you believe you may be eligible
    and wish to apply for the ECO scheme you can apply here.

We will acknowledge receipt of your application form within 5 days of receipt. Please note there is no guarantee that an application will progress to install stage. If
eligibility is not successful at each stage the ECO application will be rejected.

You will be contacted by the installer within 4 weeks of your application being received.



