The ECO4 scheme
    The Energy Company Obligation (ECO) is a government energy efficiency
    scheme in Great Britain designed to tackle fuel poverty and help
    reduce carbon emissions. Energy Suppliers are obligated to improve the
    ability of low-income, fuel-poor and vulnerable households to heat their
    homes.

    The Great British Insulation Scheme, part of ECO, offers two application groups—general
    and low-income—each with distinct eligibility criteria. The general group considers
    council tax bands and EPC ratings, while the low-income group requires benefit recipients
    in less efficient housing.

    The scheme has seen 4 iterations, ECO, ECO1, ECO2 and ECO3, a brief
    overview can be found at the bottom of this page. The ECO3 scheme
    closed on 31 March 2022 and the ECO4 Order came into force in July
    2022. ECO4 applies to measures installed from 1 April 2022 and will
    cover a four-year period until 31 March 2026.

    The Energy Company Obligation (ECO) is a UK government initiative addressing
    fuel poverty and carbon emissions. Mandating participation from energy
    suppliers, the scheme's fourth iteration, ECO4, runs from April 2022 to March
    2026. Emphasizing holistic upgrades, ECO4 requires fabric insulation before
    considering other measures, deviating from a singular focus on boiler replacements.

    Eligible customers will be able to access a range of energy improvements
    that will help them improve their home energy efficiency. ECO 4 also
    allows a more complete upgrade of homes, shifting to a multi-measure
    whole-house retrofit approach. For example, a customer should expect
    to receive loft insulation, a new boiler and all other areas of improvement.

    ECO 4 is not just a general boiler replacement only / emergency replacement
    boiler scheme. The most important measure which must be considered first
    will be fabric insulation (loft insulation / cavity wall / underfloor heating).
    Customers will need to take a package of energy efficiency improvements
    rather than just one. Eligible customers will have a survey carried out on
    their homes to make sure their property is suitable for these improvements.

How does ECO4 work?
    The ECO scheme works by placing a Home Heating Cost Reduction Obligation
    (HHCRO) on medium and large energy suppliers. Under HHCRO, obligated
    suppliers must promote measures that improve the ability of low-income,
    fuel-poor and vulnerable households to heat their homes. This includes
    actions that result in reduced energy usage, such as installing insulation
    or upgrading a heating system. The overall target for these measures is
    divided between suppliers based on their relative share of the domestic
    gas and electricity market.

How is ECO4 funded?
    The Government requires major energy suppliers to fund the Energy Company
    Obligation (ECO) scheme. This means that all the large energy suppliers are
    required to enhance energy efficiency across the United Kingdom in order to
    reduce the country’s carbon emissions.


    ECO4 is the latest version of the ECO scheme, targeting lower-income households,
    it is part of the Government’s strategy to enhance energy efficiency in households
    that are vulnerable to fuel poverty, where reduced heating costs make the biggest
    difference to the quality of life.


Who is the scheme for?
    The ECO scheme supports energy efficiency measures in the home of those
    considered to be in fuel poverty, if you’re a homeowner or tenant you can
    find out more in the homeowners and tenants section. Eligible customers
    will be able to access a range of energy improvements that will help them
    improve their home energy efficiency. ECO 4 also requires a more complete
    upgrade of homes, shifting to a multi-measure whole-house retrofit approach.
    For example, a customer cannot just expect to receive loft insulation or a
    new boiler under ECO 4 all areas of improvement must be delivered

The importance of good insulation.
    Consumer protection magazine Which? found that installing loft insulation can
    reduce your energy bills by up to £215 per year. All heat rises, and in most
    houses more than 25% of the heat inside the home escapes through the roof, which
    makes loft insulation and room in roof insulation vital to improving your home’s
    energy efficiency.

    Part of our survey involves the inspection of existing loft insulation, in many
    cases (particularly if the thickness is less than 100mm) this loft insulation can be
    increased in order to improve the energy efficiency. Loft insulation is effective
    for an extremely long period of time, with some loft insulation remaining effective
    for at least 40 years.

Measures funded by the scheme.
    ECO4 funding is available for several measures including Cavity Wall Insulation,
    Gas Boiler Replacement/Upgrade, First Time Gas Connection, Heating Controls upgrade,
    Loft/Room-in-Roof Insulation, Solid Wall Insulation, External Insulation among others.



There is a very strict set of eligibility criteria for the scheme and customers
need to be in receipt of certain benefits to be eligible. To qualify for measures under the ECO
scheme you OR someone in your household or the person you are applying on behalf of must be in
receipt of one of the following:


    Customers that are in receipt of the following benefits qualify
    (as long as their home is applicable for improvements)

    I. Income-based Job Seekers Allowance
    II. Income-related Employment and Support Allowance
    III. Income Support
    IV. Pension Credit either Savings Credit or Guarantee Credit
    V. Working Tax Credit
    VI. Child Tax Credit
    VII. Universal Credit
    VIII. Housing Benefit
    IX. Child benefit where the occupants meet the below income thresholds*

    Upon receipt of your application we do the following:

    STEP 1:
        We check your eligibility and a remote assessment of your property.
    STEP 2:
        We arrange a minimally intrusive, 10-15 minute survey, with one of
        our installers, to carry out an initial inspection your home.
    STEP 3:
        Once we have identified the appropriate measures to implement, we arrange
        and coordinate for the installation works to be carried out with your approval
        and little to no inconvenience on your part. On average installation works are
        completed within 3 days.

    No work will be carried out or commence without the customers' full consent and
    until a full assessment and quote has been prepared. Please note, no charges will be
    made to the customer until after a survey is completed and a quote generated. Please
    note that the ECO retrofit may require an upfront customer contribution but this will
    not be known until after the initial survey.

    If the property is privately rented and the tenants are on benefits, the
    ECO 4 application cannot proceed without written permission from the
    landlord. This cannot be received by email, a formal declaration will
    need to be completed by the Landlord which will be supplied to the tenant
    by the relevant installer.

    You may be eligible if you own or privately rent your home, or live in
    social housing. When you apply, we'll ask for some details about your
    property and the benefits you're getting. If you believe you may be eligible
    and wish to apply for the ECO scheme you can apply *here*.

    Applicants undergo an initial remote assessment, followed by a comprehensive evaluation
    and quote. While an upfront customer contribution may be necessary, the amount is
    determined post-survey. Privately rented properties with benefit-receiving tenants
    require written landlord permission.

    Please note:
     i. Costs will not be known until the property has been fully assessed and any additional costs (if applicable)
       will be included in the installers quote. Work will not commence without the customers full consent.

     ii. Please note, submitting your application does not guarantee you will be able to claim measures under the ECO scheme.

     iii. The ECO scheme funding may not cover the full cost of any improvements.

     iv. Quotes can be dependent on property type, size, efficiency and any additional work required.

     v. Installers will need to contact the DWP to undergo DWP checks to confirm your eligibility.

We will acknowledge receipt of your application form within 5 days of receipt.
Please note there is no guarantee that an application will progress to install stage.
If eligibility is not successful at each stage your ECO application will be rejected.

You will be contacted by an assigned installer within 4 weeks of your application being received.
